blogs/2025/08/27/vscode-dev-days.md, before:

---
Order: 104
TOCTitle: "VS Code Dev Days 2025"
PageTitle: "VS Code Dev Days – Join an event near you to learn about AI-assisted development"
MetaDescription: Join a VS Code Dev Days event to learn about GitHub Copilot in VS Code
MetaSocialImage: VSCode-Dev-Days-banner.jpg
Date: 2025-08-26
Author: Katie Savage, Cynthia Zanoni
---

# VS Code Dev Days – Join an event near you to learn about AI-assisted development

August 26th, 2025 by [Katie Savage](https://github.com/katiesavage) and [Cynthia Zanoni](https://x.com/cynthiazanoni)

AI has become core to the developer experience in VS Code, shipping features like agent mode, next edit suggestions, and full MCP spec support in just the past six months. We've loved seeing how the community has embraced these AI features to transform their developer workflows. But with this rapid era of change, we also recognize that there is a lot to learn to effectively use these tools. We are excited to share that, together with our amazing community, we’re running 60+ global, in-person events to re-introduce you to VS Code as an AI-powered editor and upskill you on the latest features.

Find an event near you and register today: <https://aka.ms/VSCode/DevDays>.

## What to expect from a VS Code Dev Days event?

Each VS Code Dev Days event is run by a Microsoft employee or active, recognized community member. The events are short and sweet and will typically include two lecture-style sessions and one interactive lab to put it all in practice. Here is a sample agenda:

- **Introductory session:** 30-45 minutes on VS Code, GitHub Copilot, and AI development from a Microsoft advocate or active community member.
- **Local community session:** 30-45 minutes by a local developer or community leader on relevant topics.
- **Hands-on workshop:** 1 hour of coding and practical exercises.

The specific event details can vary, as each community event organizer might tweak the event to fit the interests of their local developer community.

At every event, from São Paulo to Seoul, you can connect with local devs to explore the features, tips, and extensions that make coding with AI smarter, faster, and more productive.

VS Code Dev Days are open to all developers. If it’s your first time trying out AI-assisted development, this event will introduce you to the tools and best practices to succeed from day one. If you’re more advanced, we’re excited to show you the latest tips and tricks to ensure you’re fully up-to-date.

## Find an event near you

Thanks to our partners including [Microsoft MVPs](https://mvp.microsoft.com/mvp), [Student Ambassadors](https://mvp.microsoft.com/en-US/studentambassadors), [GitHub Campus Experts](https://github.com/campus-experts), [GitHub Stars](https://stars.github.com/) and Progress, there are more than **60 events happening this fall** in cities like Paris, Bengaluru, Seoul, Cape Town, Cordoba, New York City, and so many more.

Visit [aka.ms/VSCode/DevDays](https://aka.ms/VSCode/DevDays) to find an event near you!

![Promotional banner for VS Code Dev Days, featuring event details and a screenshot of Visual Studio Code with a file named 'functionality.md' open. The left side includes the event title, a call to join in-person community events, and a URL (aka.ms/VSCode/DevDays), along with icons for Visual Studio Code and GitHub Copilot](./VSCode-Dev-Days-banner.jpg)

### Can’t join in person? No problem!

We also have **special virtual editions** featuring sessions packed with demos and practical tips:

| **Event** | **Language** | **Date** | **Time (UTC)** | **Register** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **VS Code Dev Days: Brasil** | **Português** | **September 23** | **15:00** | <https://aka.ms/vscodedevdays/brasil> |
| **VS Code Dev Days: APAC** | **English** | **September 23** | **12:30** | <https://aka.ms/vscodedevdays/apac> |
| **VS Code Dev Days: LATAM** | **Español** | **September 24** | **18:00** | <https://aka.ms/vscodedevdays/latam> |
| **VS Code Dev Days: Worldwide** | **English** | **September 25** | **16:00** | <https://aka.ms/vscode/devdays/ww-r> |

## ✨ More than an event

VS Code Dev Days 2025 is your chance to explore what’s next in developer productivity, AI-assisted coding, and community collaboration. Whether you’re joining online or in person, we can’t wait to see what you build.

Join the global conversation using **#VSCodeDevDays**. Share your photos, tag VS Code on [X](https://x.com/code), [TikTok](https://www.tiktok.com/@vscode), or [BlueSky](https://bsky.app/profile/vscode.dev) and show the world how your community codes.

Happy coding! 💙

Commit message:

event is over, include links to resources

blogs/2025/08/27/vscode-dev-days.md, after:

---
Order: 104
TOCTitle: "VS Code Dev Days 2025"
PageTitle: "VS Code Dev Days – Join an event near you to learn about AI-assisted development"
MetaDescription: Join a VS Code Dev Days event to learn about GitHub Copilot in VS Code
MetaSocialImage: VSCode-Dev-Days-banner.jpg
Date: 2025-08-26
Author: Katie Savage, Cynthia Zanoni
---

# VS Code Dev Days – Join an event near you to learn about AI-assisted development

August 26th, 2025 by [Katie Savage](https://github.com/katiesavage) and [Cynthia Zanoni](https://x.com/cynthiazanoni)

> *VS Code Dev Days is over, but you can view our [virtual event on demand](https://www.youtube.com/live/ujSgVqC94TQ?si=oe1QOjpU3RRqq0Ez) or check out the [free training and workshop content](https://github.com/microsoft/VS-Code-Dev-Days/tree/main).*

AI has become core to the developer experience in VS Code, shipping features like agent mode, next edit suggestions, and full MCP spec support in just the past six months. We've loved seeing how the community has embraced these AI features to transform their developer workflows. But with this rapid era of change, we also recognize that there is a lot to learn to effectively use these tools. We are excited to share that, together with our amazing community, we’re running 60+ global, in-person events to re-introduce you to VS Code as an AI-powered editor and upskill you on the latest features.

Find an event near you and register today: <https://aka.ms/VSCode/DevDays>.

## What to expect from a VS Code Dev Days event?

Each VS Code Dev Days event is run by a Microsoft employee or active, recognized community member. The events are short and sweet and will typically include two lecture-style sessions and one interactive lab to put it all in practice. Here is a sample agenda:

- **Introductory session:** 30-45 minutes on VS Code, GitHub Copilot, and AI development from a Microsoft advocate or active community member.
- **Local community session:** 30-45 minutes by a local developer or community leader on relevant topics.
- **Hands-on workshop:** 1 hour of coding and practical exercises.

The specific event details can vary, as each community event organizer might tweak the event to fit the interests of their local developer community.

At every event, from São Paulo to Seoul, you can connect with local devs to explore the features, tips, and extensions that make coding with AI smarter, faster, and more productive.

VS Code Dev Days are open to all developers. If it’s your first time trying out AI-assisted development, this event will introduce you to the tools and best practices to succeed from day one. If you’re more advanced, we’re excited to show you the latest tips and tricks to ensure you’re fully up-to-date.

## Find an event near you

Thanks to our partners including [Microsoft MVPs](https://mvp.microsoft.com/mvp), [Student Ambassadors](https://mvp.microsoft.com/en-US/studentambassadors), [GitHub Campus Experts](https://github.com/campus-experts), [GitHub Stars](https://stars.github.com/) and Progress, there are more than **60 events happening this fall** in cities like Paris, Bengaluru, Seoul, Cape Town, Cordoba, New York City, and so many more.

Visit [aka.ms/VSCode/DevDays](https://aka.ms/VSCode/DevDays) to find an event near you!

![Promotional banner for VS Code Dev Days, featuring event details and a screenshot of Visual Studio Code with a file named 'functionality.md' open. The left side includes the event title, a call to join in-person community events, and a URL (aka.ms/VSCode/DevDays), along with icons for Visual Studio Code and GitHub Copilot](./VSCode-Dev-Days-banner.jpg)

### Can’t join in person? No problem!

We also have **special virtual editions** featuring sessions packed with demos and practical tips:

| **Event** | **Language** | **Date** | **Time (UTC)** | **Register** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **VS Code Dev Days: Brasil** | **Português** | **September 23** | **15:00** | <https://aka.ms/vscodedevdays/brasil> |
| **VS Code Dev Days: APAC** | **English** | **September 23** | **12:30** | <https://aka.ms/vscodedevdays/apac> |
| **VS Code Dev Days: LATAM** | **Español** | **September 24** | **18:00** | <https://aka.ms/vscodedevdays/latam> |
| **VS Code Dev Days: Worldwide** | **English** | **September 25** | **16:00** | <https://aka.ms/vscode/devdays/ww-r> |

## ✨ More than an event

VS Code Dev Days 2025 is your chance to explore what’s next in developer productivity, AI-assisted coding, and community collaboration. Whether you’re joining online or in person, we can’t wait to see what you build.

Join the global conversation using **#VSCodeDevDays**. Share your photos, tag VS Code on [X](https://x.com/code), [TikTok](https://www.tiktok.com/@vscode), or [BlueSky](https://bsky.app/profile/vscode.dev) and show the world how your community codes.

Happy coding! 💙
