# May 2021 (version 1.57)

## Visual Studio Code Remote Core

### Install Additional Remote Extensions in the Remote Menu

The remote menu now has a command `Install Additional Remote Extensions` that will show all extensions that contributes commands to the remote menu.

If your extensions contributes commands to the remote menu but does not show up, make sure to use the latest version of `vsce` when publishing your extension.

## Containers (version 0.182.x)

### Workspace Trust

When opening a folder in a container you are now asked to first trust the local folder. Workspace trust is required because the dev container's configuration is given control over the building of the dev container including access to the host machine. See VS Code 1.57's main release notes for general details about Workspace Trust.

### Environment Probing on Default

Environment variables are now read using an interactive login shell (sourcing, e.g., `~/.profile` and `~/.bashrc`) by default. This should fix many cases where environment variables were missing when excuting tasks and launch configurations.

### Wait for any user command

The additional `"waitFor"` property in the devcontainer.json can be used to wait for any of the user commands in the devcontainer.json (`"postCreateCommand"`, `"postStartCommand"`, `"postAttachCommand"` and also the new `"onCreateCommand"` and `"updateConentCommand"`) before VS Code connects to the dev container.

Other additional properties include `"onCreateCommand"`, `"updateContentCommand"` and `"hostRequirements"`. These were added for GitHub Codespaces.
