# February 2021 (version 1.54)

## Visual Studio Code Remote Core

## Containers


## WSL

### Use polling for Windows file system mount in WSL 2

In Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), you can access the Windows file system through a mount: `/mnt/...`. However, in WSL 2 distros, the mount has [known issues with file events](https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/).

To work around these issues, we now use polling for all folders opened on a Windows file system. This feature is controlled by the setting `remote.WSL.fileWatcher.polling`, which is true by default.

### Recommend using WSL 2 Linux file system

Working with a WSL 2 distro on the Windows file system is far less performant than on the Linux file system (for example, `/home/..`).

There is now a notification when the user opens a folder on a Windows file system mount, which recommends using the Linux file system instead. More information on this topic can also be found at [Performance across OS file systems](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/wsl/compare-versions#performance-across-os-file-systems).

### Fix for WSL 2 connection issues when behind a proxy

When connecting to the VS Code server running in WSL 2, we directly use the WSL 2 VM's IP.

Due to a change in 1.53, this no longer worked for users that have proxy settings defined. To fix this, we now try to detect that the IP cannot be reached and use `localhost` instead. If the detection doesn't work or takes too long, you can force the use of `localhost` with the setting `remote.WSL.server.connectThroughLocalhost`.

## SSH

### X11 Forwarding

X11 Forwarding is now supported with Remote - SSH. If `ForwardX11 yes` is already set in your [SSH config file](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/ssh_config.5.html), and X11 forwarding is enabled on the SSH server, then X11 forwarding will work for programs launched from terminals, tasks, and debuggers.
