# March 2024 (version 1.88)

## Core

### Alternate server download for extended support distros

We now have a separate server download for [extended support distros](https://aka.ms/vscode-remote/faq/old-linux) that have a dependency on glibc >= 2.17 and libstdc++ >= 3.4.19. For other distro connections, a server with a dependency of glibc >= 2.28 and libstdc++ >= 3.4.25 is downloaded.

### Port forwarding in query

External URIs that have a string that matches `host:port` in the query portion of the URI have that `port` forwarded. This is useful for URLs that include a redirect URI to a server running on `localhost` on the remote.

## Dev Containers

### Automatic start of Docker

When the Dev Containers extension detects that Docker is not running on Windows or Mac, it now checks for and automatically starts Docker Desktop. This should avoid a common manual step after rebooting your machine.

## Tunnels

Windows administrators can now restrict access to Dev Tunnels and port forwarding via group policies. Read more on [Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/dev-tunnels/policies).

## SSH

### New "Exec Server" Mode for SSH

We've been reworking the internals of the `Remote - SSH` extension to a new model. While there are no user-facing changes yet, this release makes the exec server mode the default. If you experience new issues with SSH, you can try disabling this mode by setting `"remote.ssh.useExecServer": false` in your user settings.

Please be sure to [file an issue](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-remote-release/issues/new) if you run into any such problems.
