docs/containers/quickstart-node.md, before:

---
Order: 2
Area: containers
TOCTitle: Node.js
ContentId: A963901F-BF3F-455F-AD75-AB54EAE72BEF
PageTitle: Build and run a Node.js app in a container
DateApproved: 12/13/2022
MetaDescription: Develop, build, and debug a Node.js app in a Docker container, using Visual Studio Code.
---
# Node.js in a container

In this guide you will learn how to:

- Create a `Dockerfile` file for an [Express](https://expressjs.com/) Node.js service container
- Build, run, and verify the functionality of the service
- Debug the service running within a container

## Prerequisites

- Both Docker and the VS Code Docker extension must be installed as described in the [overview](/docs/containers/overview.md#installation)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) version 10 or later

## Create an Express Node.js application

1. Create a folder for the project.
1. Open a development command prompt in the project folder and create the project:

   ```bash
   npx express-generator
   npm install
   ```

## Add Docker files to the project

1. Open the project folder in VS Code.
1. Open the Command Palette (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and use **Docker: Add Docker Files to Workspace...** command:

   ![Add Dockerfile to a Node.js project](images/quickstarts/node-add-node-dark.png)

1. Select **Node.js** when prompted for the application platform.
1. Choose the default **package.json** file.
1. Enter `3000` when prompted for the application port.
1. Select either **Yes** or **No** when prompted to include Docker Compose files. Compose is typically used when running multiple containers at once.

The extension creates `Dockerfile` and `.dockerignore` files. If you elected to include Docker Compose files, `docker-compose.yml` and `docker-compose.debug.yml` will be generated as well. Finally, the extension will create a set of **VS Code tasks** in `.vscode/tasks.json` for building and running the container (in both debug- and release-configurations) and a **launch debug configuration** in `.vscode/launch.json` for debugging the service within the container.

## Add an environment variable to the image

The Docker extension helps you author Dockerfiles by using [IntelliSense](/docs/editor/intellisense.md) to provide auto-completions and contextual help. To see this feature in action, add an environment variable to your service image by following these steps:

1. Open the `Dockerfile` file.
1. Use `ENV` instruction to add an environment variable to the service container image.

   ![Add an environment variable to Docker image](images/quickstarts/nodejs-intellisense-env.png)

   Note how the Docker extension lists all available Dockerfile instructions and describes the syntax.

   > The Docker extension uses the `base` stage of the `Dockerfile` to create a debug version of the container image for your service. Put the environment variable definition in the `base` stage to have this variable available in both debug and release versions of the container image.
1. Save the `Dockerfile` file.

## Run the service locally

1. Open a terminal (`kb(workbench.action.terminal.toggleTerminal)`).
1. Enter `npm run start` to start the application:

   ```
   > express-app@0.0.0 start /Users/user/code/scratch/express-app
   > node ./bin/www
   ```

1. Open the web browser and navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). You should see a page similar to the following:

   ![Application page in browser](images/quickstarts/node-run-browser.png)

1. When done testing, type `kbstyle(Ctrl+C)` in the terminal.

## Build the service image

1. Open the Command Palette (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and select the **Docker Images: Build Image...** command.
1. Open the Docker Explorer and verify that the new image is visible in the Images tree:

   ![Verify Docker image exists](images/quickstarts/node-verify-image-dark.png)

## Run the service container

1. Right-click on the image built in the previous section and select **Run** or **Run Interactive**. The container should start and you should be able to see it in the Docker Containers tree:

   ![Running service container](images/quickstarts/node-running-container-dark.png)

1. Open the web browser and navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). You should see a page similar to the following:

   ![Application page in browser](images/quickstarts/node-run-browser.png)

1. When done testing, right-click the container in the Containers tree and select **Stop**.

## Debug in the service container

When the Docker extension adds files to the application, it also adds a **VS Code debugger configuration** in `.vscode/launch.json` for debugging the service when running inside a container. The extension detects the protocol and port used by the service and points the browser to the service.

1. Set a breakpoint in the `get()` handler for the `'/'` route in `routes/index.js`.

1. Make sure the **Docker Node.js Launch** debugger configuration is selected.

   ![Selected Docker debug configuration](images/quickstarts/node-debug-configuration-dark.png)

1. Start debugging (use the `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)` key).
    - The Docker image for the service builds.
    - The Docker container for the service runs.
    - The browser opens to the (random) port mapped to the service container.
    - The debugger stops at the breakpoint in `index.js`.

    > Note that, because the debugger attaches *after* the application starts, the breakpoint may be missed the first time around; you might have to refresh the browser to see the debugger break on the second try.
    >
    > You can configure the application to wait for the debugger to attach before starting execution by setting the [inspectMode](/docs/containers/reference.md#node-object-properties-dockerrun-task) property to `break` in the `docker-run: debug` task in `tasks.json` under the `node` object.

## View the application logs

You can view the logs in VS Code by using the **View Logs** command on the container:

1. Navigate to the Docker Explorer.
1. In the **Containers** tab, right-click on your container and choose **View Logs**.

    ![Screenshot of logs in the terminal](images/quickstarts/node-view-logs-dark.png)

1. The output will be displayed in the terminal.

## Next steps

You're done! Now that your container is ready, you may want to:

- [Learn about debugging Node.js in a container](/docs/containers/debug-node.md)
- [Customize your Docker build and run tasks](/docs/containers/reference.md)
- [Push your image to a container registry](/docs/containers/quickstart-container-registries.md#push-an-image-to-a-container-registry)
- [Learn about using Docker Compose](/docs/containers/docker-compose.md)

Commit message:

Update docs with new Container Tools extension

docs/containers/quickstart-node.md, after:

---
Order: 2
Area: containers
TOCTitle: Node.js
ContentId: A963901F-BF3F-455F-AD75-AB54EAE72BEF
PageTitle: Build and run a Node.js app in a container
DateApproved: 12/13/2022
MetaDescription: Develop, build, and debug a Node.js app in a container, using Visual Studio Code.
---
# Node.js in a container

In this guide you will learn how to:

- Create a `Dockerfile` file for an [Express](https://expressjs.com/) Node.js service container
- Build, run, and verify the functionality of the service
- Debug the service running within a container

## Prerequisites

- Both Docker and the VS Code Container Tools extension must be installed as described in the [overview](/docs/containers/overview.md#installation)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) version 10 or later

## Create an Express Node.js application

1. Create a folder for the project.
1. Open a development command prompt in the project folder and create the project:

   ```bash
   npx express-generator
   npm install
   ```

## Add Docker files to the project

1. Open the project folder in VS Code.
1. Open the Command Palette (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and use **Containers: Add Docker Files to Workspace...** command:

   ![Add Dockerfile to a Node.js project](images/quickstarts/node-add-node-dark.png) <!-- TODO: image needs updating -->

1. Select **Node.js** when prompted for the application platform.
1. Choose the default **package.json** file.
1. Enter `3000` when prompted for the application port.
1. Select either **Yes** or **No** when prompted to include Docker Compose files. Compose is typically used when running multiple containers at once.

The extension creates `Dockerfile` and `.dockerignore` files. If you elected to include Docker Compose files, `docker-compose.yml` and `docker-compose.debug.yml` will be generated as well. Finally, the extension will create a set of **VS Code tasks** in `.vscode/tasks.json` for building and running the container (in both debug- and release-configurations) and a **launch debug configuration** in `.vscode/launch.json` for debugging the service within the container.

## Add an environment variable to the image

The Container Tools extension helps you author Dockerfiles by using [IntelliSense](/docs/editor/intellisense.md) to provide auto-completions and contextual help. To see this feature in action, add an environment variable to your service image by following these steps:

1. Open the `Dockerfile` file.
1. Use `ENV` instruction to add an environment variable to the service container image.

   ![Add an environment variable to Docker image](images/quickstarts/nodejs-intellisense-env.png)

   Note how the Container Tools extension lists all available Dockerfile instructions and describes the syntax.

   > The Container Tools extension uses the `base` stage of the `Dockerfile` to create a debug version of the container image for your service. Put the environment variable definition in the `base` stage to have this variable available in both debug and release versions of the container image.
1. Save the `Dockerfile` file.

## Run the service locally

1. Open a terminal (`kb(workbench.action.terminal.toggleTerminal)`).
1. Enter `npm run start` to start the application:

   ```
   > express-app@0.0.0 start /Users/user/code/scratch/express-app
   > node ./bin/www
   ```

1. Open the web browser and navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). You should see a page similar to the following:

   ![Application page in browser](images/quickstarts/node-run-browser.png)

1. When done testing, type `kbstyle(Ctrl+C)` in the terminal.

## Build the service image

1. Open the Command Palette (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and select the **Container Images: Build Image...** command.
1. Open the Container Explorer and verify that the new image is visible in the Images view:

   ![Verify Docker image exists](images/quickstarts/node-verify-image-dark.png) <!-- TODO: image needs updating -->

## Run the service container

1. Right-click on the image built in the previous section and select **Run** or **Run Interactive**. The container should start and you should be able to see it in the Containers view:

   ![Running service container](images/quickstarts/node-running-container-dark.png) <!-- TODO: image needs updating -->

1. Open the web browser and navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). You should see a page similar to the following:

   ![Application page in browser](images/quickstarts/node-run-browser.png)

1. When done testing, right-click the container in the Containers view and select **Stop**.

## Debug in the service container

When the Container Tools extension adds files to the application, it also adds a **VS Code debugger configuration** in `.vscode/launch.json` for debugging the service when running inside a container. The extension detects the protocol and port used by the service and points the browser to the service.

1. Set a breakpoint in the `get()` handler for the `'/'` route in `routes/index.js`.

1. Make sure the **Containers: Node.js Launch** debugger configuration is selected.

   ![Selected debug configuration](images/quickstarts/node-debug-configuration-dark.png) <!-- TODO: image needs updating -->

1. Start debugging (use the `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)` key).
    - The image for the service builds.
    - The container for the service runs.
    - The browser opens to the (random) port mapped to the service container.
    - The debugger stops at the breakpoint in `index.js`.

    > Note that, because the debugger attaches *after* the application starts, the breakpoint may be missed the first time around; you might have to refresh the browser to see the debugger break on the second try.
    >
    > You can configure the application to wait for the debugger to attach before starting execution by setting the [inspectMode](/docs/containers/reference.md#node-object-properties-dockerrun-task) property to `break` in the `docker-run: debug` task in `tasks.json` under the `node` object.

## View the application logs

You can view the logs in VS Code by using the **View Logs** command on the container:

1. Navigate to the Container Explorer.
1. In the **Containers** view, right-click on your container and choose **View Logs**.

    ![Screenshot of logs in the terminal](images/quickstarts/node-view-logs-dark.png)

1. The output will be displayed in the terminal.

## Next steps

You're done! Now that your container is ready, you may want to:

- [Learn about debugging Node.js in a container](/docs/containers/debug-node.md)
- [Customize your Docker build and run tasks](/docs/containers/reference.md)
- [Push your image to a container registry](/docs/containers/quickstart-container-registries.md#push-an-image-to-a-container-registry)
- [Learn about using Docker Compose](/docs/containers/docker-compose.md)
