---
Order:
TOCTitle: April 2025
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code April 2025
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code April 2025 Release (1.100)
MetaSocialImage: 1_100/release-highlights.png
Date: 2025-04-07
DownloadVersion: 1.100.0
---
# April 2025 (version 1.100)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

---

Welcome to the April 2025 release of Visual Studio Code. There are many updates in this version that we hope you'll like, some of the key highlights include:

* [Highlight](bookmark link) - This is a highlight
* [Highlight](bookmark link) - This is a highlight

>If you'd like to read these release notes online, go to [Updates](https://code.visualstudio.com/updates) on [code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com).
**Insiders:** Want to try new features as soon as possible? You can download the nightly [Insiders](https://code.visualstudio.com/insiders) build and try the latest updates as soon as they are available.

<!--
✒️ Release note guidance ✒️:
    - Suffix the heading with `(Preview)` or `(Experimental)` for non-stable features: "AI-powered code reviews (Experimental)".
    - Use second person: "You can now...".
    - Add clear and descriptive alt text to images.
    - Use present tense instead of future tense. "You can now see..." instead of "You will be able to see..."
    - Use active voice instead of passive voice. "Select the option to preview..." instead of "The option can be selected to preview..."
 -->

## Accessibility


## Workbench

### Floating windows compact and always-on-top mode

Floating windows in VS Code allow you to move editors and certain views out of the main window into a smaller window for lightweight multi-window setups. There are 2 new modes a floating window can have:
* compact: we hide certain UI elements to make more room for the actual content
* always-on-top: the window will stay on top of all other windows until you leave this mode

Here is an example of how to turn a floating editor window into compact mode:

<video src="images/1_100/floating-compact.mp4" title="Video that shows floating window compact mode." autoplay loop controls muted></video>

We leverage compact mode by default for when you create a Chat in a new window. Combined with the option to have the window always on top, you can always keep the Chat window around for asking questions!

<video src="images/1_100/floating-pinned.mp4" title="Video that shows floating window always on top." autoplay loop controls muted></video>

New commands are introduced if you prefer to use keyboard shortcuts:
* `workbench.action.toggleWindowAlwaysOnTop`: to toggle always on top mode
* `workbench.action.enableWindowAlwaysOnTop`: to set the floating window always on top
* `workbench.action.disableWindowAlwaysOnTop`: to set the floating window normal
* `workbench.action.toggleCompactAuxiliaryWindow`: to toggle compact mode
* `workbench.action.enableCompactAuxiliaryWindow`: to enable compact mode
* `workbench.action.disableCompactAuxiliaryWindow`: to disable compact mode

*Note:* even in compact mode you can create complex editor layouts and open other editors.

### New setting to control secondary sidebar default visibility

A new setting `setting(workbench.secondarySideBar.defaultVisibility)` allows to control if the secondary sidebar should open automatically in new workspaces or windows. You can pick from:
* `hidden`: this is the default and keeps the secondary sidebar hidden
* `visibleInWorkspace`: this will open the secondary sidebar if you open a folder or multi-root workspace
* `visible`: this will always open the secondary sidebar

Note that once a workspace or window has been opened, the visiblity becomes a workspace state: if you close the secondary sidebar, it will remain closed in that workspace or window.


## Code Editing


## Chat


## Notebooks


## Source Control


## Terminal


## Tasks


## Debugging


## Testing


## Languages


## Remote Development

The [Remote Development extensions](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack), allow you to use a [Dev Container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers), remote machine via SSH or [Remote Tunnels](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/tunnels), or the [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl) (WSL) as a full-featured development environment.

Highlights include:

- TODO @ntrogh: add remote highlights here

You can learn more about these features in the [Remote Development release notes](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/blob/main/remote-release-notes/v1_98.md).


## Contributions to extensions

### Python


### GitHub Pull Requests and Issues


## Extension Authoring

### Text Encodings

We finalized the API for working with text encodings in VS Code.

Specifically, this new API allows you to:

* Get the current `encoding` of a `TextDocument`
* Open a `TextDocument` with a specific `encoding`
* Encode a `string` to a `Uint8Array` with a specific `encoding`
* Decode a `Uint8Array` to a `string` using a specific `encoding`

## Proposed APIs


## Engineering


## Notable fixes


## Thank you

Last but certainly not least, a big _**Thank You**_ to the contributors of VS Code.

### Issue tracking

Contributions to our issue tracking:


### Pull requests


<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>