---
Order:
TOCTitle: May 2025
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code May 2025
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code May 2025 Release (1.101)
MetaSocialImage: 1_101/release-highlights.png
Date: 2025-06-02
DownloadVersion: 1.101.0
---
# May 2025 (version 1.101)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

---

Welcome to the Insiders build. These are the preliminary notes for the May 1.101 release of Visual Studio Code. As we get closer to the release date, you'll find details below about new features and important fixes.

Until the May milestone release notes are available, you can still track our progress:

* **[Commit log](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/commits/main)** - GitHub commits to the vscode open-source repository.
* **[Closed issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22May+2025%22)** - Resolved bugs and implemented feature requests in the milestone.

We really appreciate people trying our new features as soon as they are ready, so check back here often and learn what's new.

>If you'd like to read release notes for previous VS Code versions, go to [Updates](https://code.visualstudio.com/updates) on [code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com).


## Chat
### User action required sound

We’ve added an accessibility signal to indicate when chat requires user action. By default, this will play only when the current window is not focused. For screen reader users, it will play regardless of window focus. You can configure this behavior with `setting(accessibility.signals.chatUserActionRequired)`.

## Accessibility

### New code action sounds

We’ve introduced distinct sounds for when a code action is triggered (`setting(accessibility.signals.codeActionTriggered)`) and when it is applied (`setting(accessibility.signals.codeActionApplied)`).

### Agent mode improvements

We now include rich information about confirmation dialogs in the accessible view - covering past tool runs, the current tool run, and any pending confirmations. This includes the inputs that will be used.

When a confirmation dialog appears in a response, the action’s title is now included in the ARIA label of the corresponding code block, the response’s ARIA label, and the live alert to provide better context for screen reader users.

## Editor Experience

## Code Editing

## Notebooks

## Source Control

## Terminal

## Tasks

## Debugging

## Languages

## Remote Development

<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>