---
Order: 59
TOCTitle: September 2020
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code September 2020
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code September 2020 Release (1.50)
MetaSocialImage: 1_50/release-highlights.png
Date: 2020-10-7
DownloadVersion: 1.50.0
---
# September 2020 (version 1.50)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the Insiders build. These are the preliminary notes for the September 1.50 release of Visual Studio Code. As we get closer to the release date, you'll find details below about new features and important fixes.

Until the September milestone release notes are available, you can still track our progress:

* **[September iteration plan](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/106677)** - Review what's planned for the milestone.
* **[Commit log](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/commits/master)** - GitHub commits to the vscode open-source repository.
* **[Closed issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22September+2020%22+is%3Aclosed)** - Resolved bugs and implemented feature requests in the milestone.

We really appreciate people trying our new features as soon as they are ready, so check back here often and learn what's new.

If you find issues or have suggestions, you can enter them in the [VS Code repository](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues) on GitHub.

<!-- In-product release notes styles.  Do not modify without also modifying regex in gulpfile.common.js -->
<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>

## Editor

## Debugging

* Language hover now available while debugging
TODO@isidorn

* Debug console polish
TODO@isidorn

### JavaScript Debugging

* Consolidate auto-attach configuration flows
TODO@connor

## Contributions to extensions

* Updated notebook samples
TODO@andre

* Updated Mock debug
TODO@andre

## Extension authoring

## Proposed extension APIs

Every milestone comes with new proposed APIs and extension authors can try them out. As always, we want your feedback. This is what you have to do to try out a proposed API:

* You must use Insiders because proposed APIs change frequently.
* You must have this line in the `package.json` file of your extension: `"enableProposedApi": true`.
* Copy the latest version of the [`vscode.proposed.d.ts`](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/blob/master/src/vs/vscode.proposed.d.ts) file into your project's source location.

Note that you cannot publish an extension that uses a proposed API. There may be breaking changes in the next release and we never want to break existing extensions.

## Debug Adapter Protocol

### New `invalidated` event

TODO@andre
There is a new "instruction" breakpoint type, which makes it possible to break on an instruction at a memory address. Memory addresses are specified in symbolic form that is optionally available from `evaluate`, `variables`, `stackTrace`, and `gotoTargets` requests. A corresponding client capability `supportsInstructionBreakpoints` indicates whether the debug adapter supports instruction breakpoints.

### Proposal for Conditional Exception support

TODO@andre

## Engineering

## Notable fixes

## Thank you
