---
Order: 71
TOCTitle: October 2021
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code October 2021
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code October 2021 Release (1.62)
MetaSocialImage: 1_62/release-highlights.png
Date: 2021-11-4
DownloadVersion: 1.62.0
---
# October 2021 (version 1.62)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the Insiders build. These are the preliminary notes for the October 1.62 release of Visual Studio Code. As we get closer to the release date, you'll find details below about new features and important fixes.

Until the October milestone release notes are available, you can still track our progress:

* **[October iteration plan](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/134730)** - Review what's planned for the milestone.
* **[Commit log](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/commits/main)** - GitHub commits to the vscode open-source repository.
* **[Closed issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22October+2021%22+is%3Aclosed)** - Resolved bugs and implemented feature requests in the milestone.

We really appreciate people trying our new features as soon as they are ready, so check back here often and learn what's new.

If you find issues or have suggestions, you can enter them in the [VS Code repository](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues) on GitHub.

<!-- In-product release notes styles.  Do not modify without also modifying regex in gulpfile.common.js -->
<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>

## Engineering

### File watching changes

File watching in VS Code changes to a new library, thanks to the work of the Parcel team with their [@parcel/watcher](https://github.com/parcel-bundler/watcher). We will gradually roll out this change to all users in the upcoming weeks. Linux users will be happy to learn that the `files.watcherExclude` now applies natively so that the number of file handles VS Code needs to open for file watching can be greatly reduced.

The existing `files.legacyWatcher` setting was changed to an enumeration with these values:
* `on`: the new file watcher will never be used
* `off`: the new file watcher will always be used
* `default`: the new file watcher will only be used when you open multi-root workspaces (via `.code-workspace` file)

You should not notice any difference in your day to day work, but if file watching is broken for you, please report an issue.

### Progress for Electron sandbox support

As we continue to make the VS Code workbench ready for enabling Electron's [sandbox](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/sandbox), we made progress on moving node.js file services out of the workbench window into a different process. The same is true for the file watcher that no longer forks from the workbench window, but from a background process. This change is enabled by default in VS Code insiders and will be the default in stable for our November release.
