---
Order: 85
TOCTitle: February 2023
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code February 2023
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code February 2023 Release (1.76)
MetaSocialImage: 1_76/release-highlights.png
Date: 2023-3-2
DownloadVersion: 1.76.0
---
# February 2023 (version 1.76)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the Insiders build. These are the preliminary notes for the February 1.76 release of Visual Studio Code. As we get closer to the release date, you'll find details below about new features and important fixes.

Until the February milestone release notes are available, you can still track our progress:

* **[Commit log](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/commits/main)** - GitHub commits to the vscode open-source repository.
* **[Closed issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22February+2023%22+is%3Aclosed)** - Resolved bugs and implemented feature requests in the milestone.

We really appreciate people trying our new features as soon as they are ready, so check back here often and learn what's new.

>If you'd like to read release notes for previous VS Code versions, go to [Updates](https://code.visualstudio.com/updates) on [code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com).

## Editor

### JSONC document sorting

It is now possible to sort JSONC (JSON documents with comments) files by key. To use this feature, select **JSON: Sort document** from the Command Palette.

## Remote Development

This milestone we made several usability improvements to the remote indicator (visible in the lower right of the Status bar):

1. There is now a default keybinding to open the remote indicator menu: `kb(workbench.action.remote.showMenu)`.
<!-- TODO@joyceerhl screencast mp4 -->
2. We reduced our remote extensions' contributions to the remote indicator to make it easy to view all actions for connecting to a remote window at a glance.
    * Basic actions for opening a remote window are now always available in the remote indicator, so you can discover actions to connect to another remote even when you are already in a remote window.
    * Most actions for configuring a remote have moved from the remote indicator menu to the command palette to conserve space in the remote indicator.
<!-- TODO@joyceerhl screenshot -->
3. The **Install Additional Remote Extensions** option in the remote indicator now points to a list of curated Remote Development extensions and is hidden from the remote indicator menu if all such extensions are already installed.

## VS Code for the Web

This milestone we have added experimental readonly support for [Git LFS](https://git-lfs.com/)-tracked files hosted in GitHub and Azure Repos repositories on [vscode.dev](https://vscode.dev).

When you view a file in a GitHub or Azure Repos repository, based on your `.gitattributes` configuration, we detect whether the file is LFS-tracked and needs to be fetched from GitHub's or Azure Repos's LFS servers.

You can also use the [GitHub Repositories](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.remotehub) and [Azure Repos](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.azure-repos) extensions with VS Code Desktop to browse repositories containing Git LFS-tracked files without cloning.

This behavior can be disabled with the following settings:

* `"githubRepositories.experimental.lfs.read.enabled": false`
* `"azureRepos.experimental.lfs.read.enabled": false`

Note that [github.dev](https://github.dev) does not yet have Git LFS read support.

## Contributions to extensions

### Jupyter

#### IPyWidgets

Version `8` of [IPyWidgets](https://pypi.org/project/ipywidgets/#description) is now supported. Python Widgets relying on `IPyWidgets 7.*` will continue work, as both versions `7.*` and `8.*` are supported.

<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>
