---
Order: 84
TOCTitle: January 2023
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code January 2023
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code January 2023 Release (1.75)
MetaSocialImage: 1_75/release-highlights.png
Date: 2023-2-1
DownloadVersion: 1.75.0
---
# January 2023 (version 1.75)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the Insiders build. These are the preliminary notes for the January 1.75 release of Visual Studio Code. As we get closer to the release date, you'll find details below about new features and important fixes.

Until the January milestone release notes are available, you can still track our progress:

* **[January iteration plan](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/170413)** - Review what's planned for the January milestone.
* **[Commit log](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/commits/main)** - GitHub commits to the vscode open-source repository.
* **[Closed issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22January+2023%22+is%3Aclosed)** - Resolved bugs and implemented feature requests in the milestone.

We really appreciate people trying our new features as soon as they are ready, so check back here often and learn what's new.

>If you'd like to read release notes for previous VS Code versions, go to [Updates](https://code.visualstudio.com/updates) on [code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com).

<!-- Workbench stuff  -->

## Workbench

### Easier opt-out of release notes after update

TODO@joaomoreno

### Improved multi-view resizing support

TODO@joaomoreno

### Improved grid layout

TODO@joaomoreno

### Tree Find Widget: History support

TODO@joaomoreno

### Tree Find Widget: Contiguous matching support

TODO@joaomoreno

### List: Scroll by page

TODO@joaomoreno

### Default type navigation mode

The new `workbench.list.typeNavigationMode` setting allows you to configure the default type navigation mode for lists. When set to `trigger`, the list will only go into type navigation mode once the `list.triggerTypeNavigation` command is run.

### Nushell environment resolution support

[Nushell](https://www.nushell.sh/) is now supported whenever user environment is resolved.

### New `VSCODE_RESOLVING_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable

When resolving user environment, VS Code will now set a new environment variable `VSCODE_RESOLVING_ENVIRONMENT` to `1`. This is useful for user scripts (eg `.bashrc`) that need to know whether they are being run in the context of resolving the user environment.

## Editor

<!-- Color decorators limit -->

<!-- Find UI improvement, Command: Go to X of Y in Editor Find -->

## Notebooks

<!-- Notebook Overview Ruler show cell editor warning/problems now -->

<!-- Notebook Diff change navigation -->

## Contributions to extensions

### Python

#### Auto-select environment when VSCode is launched from an activated terminal

If a user launches VS Code via terminal with a conda or virtual environment already activated, VS Code now detects that and then either auto-selects the environment itself, or asks the user if they would like to make that environment their selected one; depending on the environment.

### Cell editor polish

VS Code can now use all editor line number options when `notebook.lineNumbers` is turned on. For example, with `"notebook.lineNumbers": "on"` and `"editor.lineNumbers": "relative"`, relative line numbers are displayed in cell editor.

### Cell commands

* Join Selected Cells (`notebook.cell.joinSelected`)

<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>
