---
Order: 79
TOCTitle: July 2022
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code July 2022
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code July 2022 Release (1.70)
MetaSocialImage: 1_70/release-highlights.png
Date: 2022-8-4
DownloadVersion: 1.70.0
---
# July 2022 (version 1.70)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the Insiders build. These are the preliminary notes for the July 1.70 release of Visual Studio Code. As we get closer to the release date, you'll find details below about new features and important fixes.

Until the July milestone release notes are available, you can still track our progress:

* **[Commit log](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/commits/main)** - GitHub commits to the vscode open-source repository.
* **[Closed issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22July+2022%22+is%3Aclosed)** - Resolved bugs and implemented feature requests in the milestone.

We really appreciate people trying our new features as soon as they are ready, so check back here often and learn what's new.

## Workbench



## Terminal

### Shell integration enabled by default

TODO@Tyriar clean up

Shell integration's automatic injection that [was moved out of preview last release](https://code.visualstudio.com/updates/v1_69#_shell-integration) is now enabled by default! For supported shell setups it should all just work without any change necessary.

Disable injection, manual install, 133 support
Disable command visibility - it's best to keep it enabled and hide the decorations if you don't like them to take advantage of the [extra functionality](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/terminal/shell-integration#_features)

### Simplified shell integration manual install

TODO@Tyriar

### Extended PowerShell keybindings

TODO@Tyriar affects all platforms

### Other shell integration improvements

- Run recent command
  - Multi-line commands show new lines, use bracketed paste mode
  - Context key for keybindings
  - New contiguous search by default
- Command decoration menu
  - New copy command entry
  - New configure command decorations entry
- Improved command navigation visual feedback
- New command `workbench.action.terminal.copyLastCommand`
- Reliability improvements
  - bash
    - Better integration with bash-preexec when it's already used
    - More PROMPT_COMMAND cases covered

### Rendering improvements

TODO@Tyriar

- Custom rendering of semi-circle powerline symbols https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/154324
- More round borders on box drawing characters https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/154689
- Improved clipping of glyphs when background color changes https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/154700
- Improved rendering of overlapped characters https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/154702

### Default color and icon tab settings

TODO@meganrogge: Example of multi-root repo

## Tasks

### Task reconnection

TODO@meganrogge

### Filter support for run task command

TODO@meganrogge

### Improved automatic tasks flow

TODO@meganrogge: Call out how trusted workspaces allowed us to change to a regular setting?

## Extension Authoring

### 'not in' operator for 'when' clauses

There is an operator that already exists for when clauses, `in`, which allows for dynamic lookup of a context key's value within another context key with an array or object-type value. We've added a new operator `not in`, which negates this. See [this operator's documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/when-clause-contexts#in-and-not-in-conditional-operators) for details.


## Debug Adapter Protocol

### 'argsCanBeInterpretedByShell' for RunInTerminalRequest

The `RunInTerminalRequest` supports a new property, `argsCanBeInterpretedByShell`, which tells the client whether special shell characters in the command `args` should be left unescaped. This is to enable users to write launch configs that will start in a terminal, and include characters that should be interpreted by the shell.

<!-- In-product release notes styles.  Do not modify without also modifying regex in gulpfile.common.js -->
<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>
