---
Order: 82
TOCTitle: October 2022
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code October 2022
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code October 2022 Release (1.73)
MetaSocialImage: 1_73/release-highlights.png
Date: 2022-11-3
DownloadVersion: 1.73.0
---
# October 2022 (version 1.73)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the Insiders build. These are the preliminary notes for the October 1.73 release of Visual Studio Code. As we get closer to the release date, you'll find details below about new features and important fixes.

Until the October milestone release notes are available, you can still track our progress:

* **[Commit log](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/commits/main)** - GitHub commits to the vscode open-source repository.
* **[Closed issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22October+2022%22+is%3Aclosed)** - Resolved bugs and implemented feature requests in the milestone.

We really appreciate people trying our new features as soon as they are ready, so check back here often and learn what's new.

>If you'd like to read release notes for previous VS Code versions, go to [Updates](https://code.visualstudio.com/updates) on [code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com).


### Outline default collapse state

There is a new setting `outline.collapseItems` that controls the default collapse state of outline items. The default value is `false` which means that outline items are expanded by default. Set it to `true` to have outline items collapsed by default. This setting can be set per language and also works for notebooks.


## Extension authoring

### Provide metadata for workspace edits

The API to apply a workspace edit now allows to provide metadata, esp for marking the edit as being a refactoring. This will be honoured by the editor and auto-save after refactoring (setting: `files.refactoring.autoSave`) will play along nicely

## Proposed APIs

Every milestone comes with new proposed APIs and extension authors can try them out. As always, we want your feedback. Here are the steps to try out a proposed API:

1. [Find a proposal that you want to try](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/tree/main/src/vscode-dts) and add its name to `package.json#enabledApiProposals`.
1. Use the latest [vscode-dts](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vscode-dts) and run `vscode-dts dev`. It will download the corresponding `d.ts` files into your workspace.
1. You can now program against the proposal.

You cannot publish an extension that uses a proposed API. There may be breaking changes in the next release and we never want to break existing extensions.


## Engineering

### Optimizing for input latency

As VS Code has grown in size, so has the amount of things we do when a keystroke is pressed. This iteration we stepped back and did a thorough investigation into what exactly happens when you type in the editor and what can we defer until after the keystroke is rendered on screen. The main outcomes of this exploration was:

- Several changes were made to defer as much work as possible until after a keystroke in the editor has been rendered on screen. A rough estimate of the impact of this is a ~15% reduction in input latency when intellisense is not showing, and an even higher reduction when intellisense is being refiltered.
- We now have more refined techniques for manually measuring input latency and optimizing at this sub-millisecond\* level.
- There is a work in progress change that will help us track and report samples of input latency, this will give us some concrete number to maintain and improve against.

This is just the beginning of this effort and we have more changes that should land next release.

\* *These numbers are very dependent upon the hardware that is used to test. A 0.5ms improvement on powerful hardware may end up being 2ms on more average hardware.*

### Automatic renderer profiling

The renderer-process of VS Code is responsible for its UI, it ensures a blinking cursor, the ability to type, and to save. Any performance issue in the renderer-process will be visible to the user and is equal to a bad experience. To help us identify and fix performance issues in the renderer-process, we have added a new setting `application.experimental.rendererProfiling` that can be used to automatically profile the renderer-process. The setting can be set to `on` to enable profiling, and `off` to disable profiling. When enabled, the renderer-process will be profiled for a few seconds whenever it "appears as pressured", the profile is then analysed, anonymized, and send off for inspection. You can use the window log to follow along with the profiling process.

Note that this feature is currently off by default as we still learn and tweak things. Please try it out and let us know what you think.

## Notable fixes

* [153852](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/153852) Proposal: Remove ES5 Class Compatibility to speed up Extension APIs

<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>
