---
Order: 96
TOCTitle: February 2024
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code February 2024
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code February 2024 Release (1.87)
MetaSocialImage: 1_87/release-highlights.png
Date: 2024-3-6
DownloadVersion: 1.87.0
---
# February 2024 (version 1.87)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the February 2024 release of Visual Studio Code. There are many updates in this version that we hope you'll like, some of the key highlights include:

* Highlight 1 goes here
* Highlight 2 goes here

>If you'd like to read these release notes online, go to [Updates](https://code.visualstudio.com/updates) on [code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com).
**Insiders:** Want to try new features as soon as possible? You can download the nightly [Insiders](https://code.visualstudio.com/insiders) build and try the latest updates as soon as they are available.

## Accessibility

### Accessibility Signals

Accessibility signals encompass sounds, formerly called audio cues, and announcements,formerly called alerts.

The commands `Help: List Signal Sounds` and `Help: List Signal Announcements` allow users to view available signals and configure them. Migration to this new configuration happens automatically.

Before:

```
"audioCues.clear": "on | auto | off"
"accessibility.alert.clear": true | false
```

After:

```
"accessibility.signals.clear": {
    "sound": "auto | on | off",
    "announcement" (optional): "auto | off"
}
```

## Workbench


## Editor


## Source Control

### Repository/Branch name in the window title

Users can customize the window title using the <code codesetting="window.title">window.title</code> setting. This milestone we have added two new variables that can be used with this setting: `${activeRepositoryName}`, and `${activeRepositoryBranchName}`. When used, these variables will be replaced with the name of the active repository and the name of the active branch, respectively.

### Commit input validation improvements

This milestone we have explored using language diagnostics to provide better input validation when authoring commit messages. Using language diagnostics enables us to surface code actions that can be invoked to resolve the input validation warnings. We have added code actions to remove whitespace characters, hard wrap lines based on the <code codesetting="git.inputValidationSubjectLength">git.inputValidationSubjectLength</code>, and <code codesetting="git.inputValidationLength">git.inputValidationLength</code> settings, and we are looking to add more code actions in the future.

To enable it, toggle the <code codesetting="git.inputValidation:true">git.inputValidation</code> setting. We have some issues to work through before we can enable this by default, but in the meantime please feel free to enable it and let us know your feedback.

### Incoming/Outgoing changes settings management

We continue to polish the "Incoming/Outgoing" section of the Source Control view. This milestone we have added a settings action to the "Incoming/Outgoing" separator that allows users to toggle the <code codesetting="scm.showIncomingChanges">scm.showIncomingChanges</code>, <code codesetting="scm.showOutgoingChanges">scm.showOutgoingChanges</code>, <code codesetting="scm.showChangesSummary">scm.showChangesSummary</code> settings more easily. The same actions are also available in the "Incoming & Outgoing" menu in the `...` menu of the Source Control view's title bar.

### Close All Unmodified Editors command

To help with editor management, this milestone we have added a new command to the command palette, **Close All Unmodified Editors**, that will close all editors that have unmodified files. The command will not close editors that have unsaved changes.

## Terminal


## Tasks


## Debug


## Testing


## Languages


## Remote Development


## Contributions to extensions

### GitHub Copilot

#### Inline Chat Accessibility View

Inline chat now has an accessibility view that shows code changes just like the accessible diff viewer does. It is enabled when using screen reader mode but can also be configured to be always on or off, use the <code codesetting="inlineChat.accessibleDiffView">inlineChat.accessibleDiffView</code>-setting for that.

Also, change-hunks can now be navigated with the keyboard via `kbstyle(F7)` and `kbstyle(Shift+F7)`.

#### Inline Chat Default Mode

We have retired the live preview mode and made `live` the default mode for inline chat.

### Python

### GitHub Pull Requests and Issues


## Preview Features


## Proposed APIs


## Engineering


## Notable fixes

## Thank you

Last but certainly not least, a big _**Thank You**_ to the contributors of VS Code.

### Issue tracking

Contributions to our issue tracking:


### Pull requests

<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>
