---
Order: 89
TOCTitle: June 2023
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code June 2023
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code June 2023 Release (1.80)
MetaSocialImage: 1_80/release-highlights.png
Date: 2023-7-5
DownloadVersion: 1.80.0
---
# June 2023 (version 1.80)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the Insiders build. These are the preliminary notes for the June 1.80 release of Visual Studio Code. As we get closer to the release date, you'll find details below about new features and important fixes.

Until the June milestone release notes are available, you can still track our progress:

* **[June iteration plan](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/184844)** - Review what's planned for the milestone.
* **[Commit log](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/commits/main)** - GitHub commits to the vscode open-source repository.
* **[Closed issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22June+2023%22+is%3Aclosed)** - Resolved bugs and implemented feature requests in the milestone.

We really appreciate people trying our new features as soon as they are ready, so check back here often and learn what's new.

>If you'd like to read release notes for previous VS Code versions, go to [Updates](https://code.visualstudio.com/updates) on [code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com).

<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>

## Workbench

### Auto playing and looping for previewed videos

You can now enable video autoplaying and looping for the built-in video file preview. The relevant settings are:

- `mediaPreview.video.autoPlay` — Enable autoplaying of videos. Autoplayed videos are automatically muted.
- `mediaPreview.video.loop` — Enable looping of videos.

These settings are off by default.

## Preview Features

### TypeScript 5.2 support

This update includes support for the upcoming TypeScript 5.2 release. Check out the [TypeScript 5.2 iteration plan](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/54298) for more details about what the TypeScript team is currently working on. Upcoming tooling highlights include:

* A new **Inline constant** refactoring.
* A new **Move to file** refactoring that lets you move a symbol into an existing file.

To start using the TypeScript 5.2 nightly builds, install the [TypeScript Nightly](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-typescript-next) extension.

## Engineering

### Name mangling of exported symbols

Last year we started [mangling the names of private properties and methods](v1_74.md#name-mangling-of-properties-and-method) to reduce our code size. We now also mangle exported symbol names, which reduces the size of our main workbench JavaScript file a further 8%.

Our name mangling build step mangling now saves a total of 3.9MB of JavaScript across core VS Code and our builtin extensions. This reduction speeds up downloads, reduces VS Code's install size, and speeds up code loading every time you start VS Code.