---
Order: 91
TOCTitle: August 2023
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code August 2023
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code August 2023 Release (1.82)
MetaSocialImage: 1_82/release-highlights.png
Date: 2023-9-6
DownloadVersion: 1.82.0
---
# August 2023 (version 1.82)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the Insiders build. These are the preliminary notes for the August 1.82 release of Visual Studio Code. As we get closer to the release date, you'll find details below about new features and important fixes.

Until the August milestone release notes are available, you can still track our progress:

* **[Commit log](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/commits/main)** - GitHub commits to the vscode open-source repository.
* **[Closed issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22August+2023%22+is%3Aclosed)** - Resolved bugs and implemented feature requests in the milestone.

We really appreciate people trying our new features as soon as they are ready, so check back here often and learn what's new.

>If you'd like to read release notes for previous VS Code versions, go to [Updates](https://code.visualstudio.com/updates) on [code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com).

## Accessibility

### Focused view in window title

`window.title` now has a `${focusedView}` variable which indicates which view, if any, is currently focused.

### Accessible view for inline completions

Inline completions, like those coming from Copilot, for example, can now be inspected in the accessible view.

### Improved widget navigation consistency across the workbench

Last iteration, we made the experience when navigating between an input control (for example, search or filter input) and its results consistent across components like the Extensions view, the Keyboard Shortcuts editor, and more (`kb(widgetNavigation.focusNext)`) and (`kb(widgetNavigation.focusPrevious)`). This has been extended to the settings editor and GitHub Pull Request comment widget.

This also works for navigating between the terminal and the terminal accessible buffer.

### Updated terminal accessible buffer keybindings

Previously, the terminal accessible buffer was opened via `Shift+Tab`. This conflicted with an existing action in some shells. As such, we've removed that keybinding in favor of (`kb(widgetNavigation.focusNext)`) and `kb(workbench.action.terminal.focusAccessibleBuffer)`, to align with that of the other accessible views.

### Actions in the accessible view

Actions in the accessible view allow screen reader users to go to `next/previous`, disable accessibility verbosity, and more for a given feature. These exist within a convenient toolbar on the view so that the current context can be preserved.

### Go to symbol in the accessible view

Accessibility help dialogs and some accessible views have a `Go to symbol` (`kb(editor.action.accessibleViewGoToSymbol)`) action to allow for swifter navigation through content.

### Terminal focus after run setting

The terminal now has a `terminal.integrated.focusAfterRun` setting so that users can specify if the terminal, accessible buffer, or nothing should be focused when `Terminal: Run Selected Text In Active Terminal` is invoked.

## Workbench

## Editor

### Sticky Scroll

This iterations there have been several improvements made to the Sticky Scroll UI available at the top of the editor (**View: Toggle Sticky Scroll**).

* Now by default Sticky Scroll is scrolled sideways when the editor horizontal scrollbar is scrolled. This feature can be turned off by disabling `editor.stickyScroll.scrollWithEditor`.
* It is possible to view the last line of a scope by holding the `Shift` key and hovering over the sticky line. Clicking on a sticky line while holding `Shift` will move the cursor to the last line of the scope.
* Folding icons have been added to the Sticky Scroll gutter. The rendering of these icons follows the setting `editor.showFoldingControls` that controls the rendering of the folding icons in the editor gutter.

### Sort JSON on save

It is now possible to sort JSON or JSONC (JSON with comments) files on save. Use the setting `json.sortOnSave.enable` to enable this feature.

## Diff Editor

## Terminal

## Debug

## Source Control

## Testing

## Notebooks

## Languages

## VS Code for the Web

## Remote Development

The [Remote Development extensions](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack), allow you to use a [Dev Container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers), remote machine via SSH or [Remote Tunnels](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/tunnels), or the [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl) (WSL) as a full-featured development environment.

You can learn about new extension features and bug fixes in the [Remote Development release notes](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/blob/main/remote-release-notes/v1_82.md).

## Contributions to extensions

### GitHub Copilot

### Python

#### Terminal Activation using Environment Variables

Python extension now has a new activation mechanism which activates selected environment in terminal without running any activation commands. This month, we are beginning to roll this out as an experiment, making this the default experience. Here, we use environment variables to activate terminals instead, which is done implicitly on terminal launch and thus can be much quicker especially for conda environments. You can add the following **User** setting: `"python.experiments.optInto": ["pythonTerminalEnvVarActivation"]` to try it out.

If you have any comments or suggestions regarding this experiment, feel free to share them in [vscode-python#11039](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-python/issues/11039).

### Jupyter

### GitHub Pull Requests and Issues

There has been more progress on the [GitHub Pull Requests and Issues](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github) extension, which allows you to work on, create, and manage pull requests and issues.

Review the [changelog for the 0.71.0](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-pull-request-github/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#0710) release of the extension to learn about the other highlights.

## Preview Features

## Extension authoring

### Support for batch range formatting

The `DocumentRangeFormattingEditProvider` API now supports batch formatting. This means that an extension can optionally signal to the editor that it supports being called with multiple ranges at once. This helps reduce the number of calls to the formatting provider and thus improves performance.

To opt-in to batch formatting, providers must implement a new optional function: [provideDocumentRangesFormattingEdits](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/blob/e34a26097d763548bf220da77b74922765c12fa2/src/vscode-dts/vscode.d.ts#L4172).

## Proposed APIs

Every milestone comes with new proposed APIs and extension authors can try them out. As always, we want your feedback. Here are the steps to try out a proposed API:

1. [Find a proposal that you want to try](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/tree/main/src/vscode-dts) and add its name to `package.json#enabledApiProposals`.
1. Use the latest [@vscode/dts](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-dts) and run `npx @vscode/dts dev`. It will download the corresponding `d.ts` files into your workspace.
1. You can now program against the proposal.

You cannot publish an extension that uses a proposed API. There may be breaking changes in the next release and we never want to break existing extensions.

## Engineering

## Documentation

## Notable fixes

## Thank you

Last but certainly not least, a big _**Thank You**_ to the contributors of VS Code.
* [@ChaseKnowlden (Chase Knowlden)](https://github.com/ChaseKnowlden):Append the focused view in the window title  [PR #190216](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/pull/190216)

### Issue tracking

Contributions to our issue tracking:

### Pull requests

Contributions to `vscode`:

<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>
